1. what is Data? 
Ans: Data are a set of values about one or more persons or objects. 
     It may be qualitative and quantitaive variables.
	 Data refers to the fact that some existing information or
	 knowledge is represented or coded in some form suitable for better usage or processing.
	 
2. What are the resources from where we can collect data ?
Ans: Data can be classified in two types as primary data and secondart data.
     Primary data is a first hand information and it can be collected through resources like 
     Personal Investigation
     collection via Investigators
     Questionnaires
     Telephonic investigation
	 Secondary data is a second hand data.It is collected from some source that has been originally primarily collected 
	 they are collected as official collections such as Ministry of Finasnce, Federal Bureaus,etc. 
	 Data published by Chambers of Commerce and trade assosiations and boards,
	 Articles in the newspapers,journals and technical publications.

3. What is DBMS?
Ans: Data Base Management System(DBMS) is a software for storing and retrieving users' data while considering appropriate security measures.
     It consists of a group of programes which manipulate the database.It allows user to create their own databases as per their requirement.
	 
4. What is RDBMS?
Ans: RDBMS is a type of Database management system that stores data in a row-column based table structure which connects related data elements.
     An RDBMS includes functions that maintain security, accuracy, integrity and consistency of the data.
	 
5. What is SQL?
Ans: SQL stands for Structured query Language. It lets you access and manipulate databases.SQL can execute and retrieve data from databases.
     It can alsdo insert, delete , update and create records in a database. It is a standard language for RDBMS systems.
	 
6. What are the various datatypes used in SQL?
Ans: a) Numeric Datatype: It includes all the numeric data like int(-2147483648 to 2147483647), smallint(-32768 to 32767), 
        bigint(-9223372036854775808 to 9223372036854775807), etc.
	 b) Date and Time Datatype : It includes datatypes such as date, time, datetime, smalldatetime.
	 c) String Datatype: It includes datatypes with text and character values like char, varchar, etc.
	 
7. What are the various commmands used in MySQL?
Ans: There are four types of SQL commands
     A) DDL(Data Definition Language): It changes the structure of the table.
        Some commands used in DDl are-
   		i)CREATE: It is used to create new table in the database.
		ii)ALTER :It is used to alter the structure of the table.
		iii) DROP: It is used to delete both the structure and the record in the table.
		iv) TRUNCATE: It is used to delete all the rows from the table and free the space containing the table.
		v) RENAME: It is used to rename the table and columns in the database.
	 B) DML(Data Manipulation Language)	: It is used to modify the table in database.
	     Some commands used in DML are-
		 i) INSERT: It is used to insert data into the row of a table.
		 ii)DELETE: It is used to remove one or more row from the table in database.
		 iii)UPDATE: IT is used to update or modify the values of a column in atable.
	 C) TCL(Transaction Control Language): It can only be used with DML commands.
         Some commands used in TCL are-
		 i) COMMIT: It is used to save all the transactions to the database.
		 ii) ROLLBACK: It is used to undo transactions that have not already been saved to the database.
	 D)  DQL(Data Query Language): It is used to fetch data fron database.
          It uses only one command.
		  i) SELECT: It is usedf to select the attribute based on the condition described by WHERE clause.
		  
8.  Differentiate between SQL and MySQL?
Ans: `i) SQL is a query language and MySQL is a relational database that uses SQL to query a database.
      ii) SQL is used to access, update and manipulate the data stored in database and
     	  MySQL is a database that stores the existing data in a database in an organised manner.
	  iii) SQL is used for writing queries for database and MySQL is used for data storing, modifying and management in a tabular format.
	  iv) SQL supports a single storage engine and MySQL supports multiple storage engines and also plug-in storage engines.
	  v) SQL server is much more secure than MySQL.
	  
9. How can you create database and tables in MySQL?
Ans: Lets take an example of a table with "student" and 'Id','FirstName','LastName','Department', 'DOB', 'MobileNo'.
     CREATE TABLE student (
	 Id int
	 FirstName varchar(50)
	 LastName varchar(50)
	 Department varchar(255)
	 DOB date
	 MobileNo int
	 );

10. Why database testing is important?
Ans: Database testing is important as it ensures data values and information received and stored into database is valid or not.
     It helps save data loss and no unauthorised access of information.
	  